# Todos Example Using Bloc with Freezed

This repository shows an example to use Bloc with Freezed.

## Dependencies

Since the main point of this project is to use [bloc][bloc_homepage] with [freezed][freezed_pubdev], these are already added to [pubspec.yaml](./pubspec.yaml) file.

[bloc_homepage]: https://bloclibrary.dev/
[freezed_pubdev]: https://pub.dev/packages/freezed

## Platforms

This project runs on web since we do not need any platform-specific thing to do.

## How to Inspect This Project

This repository is linked in [this blog post of mine](). It should give a context to this repository.

[lib/main.dart](./lib/main.dart) contains only the routing.

The project is built upon [BLoc Architecture][bloc_arch] with a mix of [what I came up with Resocoder's DDD and Flutter tutorial](https://resocoder.com/2020/03/09/flutter-firebase-ddd-course-1-domain-driven-design-principles/).

[bloc_arch]: https://bloclibrary.dev/#/architecture

The only domain is `todo`, which is located under [lib/domains/todo/](./lib/domains/todo/) directory. As mentioned in the [Bloc Architecture][bloc_arch], it is separated into (i) data, (ii) logic and (iii) presentation layers (subdirectories).

All files are conveniently named. Models end with `.model.dart`, repositories end with `.repository.dart`, pages end with `.page.dart` etc. The only exception is bloc-related files, which are automatically-generated by VSCode extensions and left as-is.

### Layers

#### Data Layer

Data layer of `todo` domain contains:

 - [Models][models_dir]
   - [Todo Model][todo_model_file]
 - [Repositories][repositories_dir]
   - [Todo Repository][todo_repository_file]

One can implement `Todo` model with [freezed][freezed_pubdev]. I have not, because it is beyond the scope of this project. By implementing `Todo` model with [freezed][freezed_pubdev], you get equality, hashing, JSON (de)serialization (optionally) and the power of union classes.

There also should be a `TodoProvider`, which deals with raw data. However, since the project's scope is narrow and we won't be dealing with external databases, it was not needed. You can check out [Bloc Architecture][bloc_arch] to get more info about what providers do.

`DummyTodoRepository` is implemented to block async operation to give a sense of fake network operation with `Future.delayed`.

[models_dir]: ./lib/domains/todo/data/models/
[todo_model_file]: ./lib/domains/todo/data/models/todo.model.dart
[repositories_dir]: ./lib/domains/todo/data/repositories/
[todo_repository_file]: ./lib/domains/todo/data/repositories/todo.repository.dart

#### Logic Layer

Logic layer of `todo` domain contains:
 - [Todo Bloc with Regular Implementation][todo_bloc_regular_dir]
 - [Todo Bloc with Freezed Implementation][todo_bloc_freezed_dir]

The regular implementation is there just for you to compare it with the [freezed][freezed_pubdev] implementation.

Also, [the regular bloc file][regular_todo_bloc_file] is not documented by comments, what events, states and handling these do is commented on [todo_bloc.dart][freezed_todo_bloc_file] file of freezed implementation.

[todo_bloc_regular_dir]: ./lib/domains/todo/logic/todo_bloc_regular/
[todo_bloc_freezed_dir]: ./lib/domains/todo/logic/todo_bloc_freezed/
[regular_todo_bloc_file]: ./lib/domains/todo/logic/todo_bloc_regular/todo_bloc.dart
[freezed_todo_bloc_file]: ./lib/domains/todo/logic/todo_bloc_freezed/todo_bloc.dart

#### Presentation Layer

Presentation layer of `todo` contains:

 - [Todo Card Component][todo_card_component_file]
 - [Todo Create Page][todo_create_page_file]
 - [Todo List Page][todo_list_page_file]

[todo_card_component_file]: ./lib/domains/todo/presentation/components/todo_card/todo_card.component.dart
[todo_create_page_file]: ./lib/domains/todo/presentation/pages/todo_create/todo_create.page.dart
[todo_list_page_file]: ./lib/domains/todo/presentation/pages/todo_list/todo_list.page.dart

## VSCode

This project is configured to be best inspected with VSCode. It contains recommended extensions, [some custom tasks](./.vscode/tasks.json) and [settings](./.vscode/settings.json).

### Recommended Extensions

VSCode will pop up a notification when first launched to install some extensions. These extensions are defined in [.vscode/extensions.json](./.vscode/extensions.json) file.

### `.gitignore`

The line after `# added for project by Eray Erdin` in [.gitignore](./.gitignore) file is added by me. The generated files are ignored. They are generated by the code generators (freezed) anyway.

# License

This project is licensed under [Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License v2](LICENSE). See the implications [here](https://tldrlegal.com/license/do-wtf-you-want-to-public-license-v2-(wtfpl-2.0)).